FLIP 353: Automatic Restaking (#353)
onflow/flips: governance/20251205-enable-automatic-restaking.md

---
status: Proposed
flip: GOV-30
authors: Joshua Hannan (joshua.hannan@flowfoundation.org)
editors:
---

# FLIP GOV-30: Enable Automatic Restaking of Staking Rewards

## Abstract

Enable core contract feature to automatically restake rewarded tokens for nodes and delegators each epoch instead of requiring stakers to do it manually.

## Background

> Rewards to node operators and delegators are paid at the end of every epoch to each staker's reward bucket. Currently, these rewards will sit there until the user manually does something with them, either withdrawing or restaking them. This can be cumbersome to most stakers who simply want to continue staking their tokens every week. Many users over the years have asked for functionality to automatically restake their rewards for them.

Reviewer: I think it would significantly improve the clarity of this document if you explain the "buckets" you are mentioning in the next section. I would suggest to explain the buckets at the end of the background section. For the _start_ of the background section, I would keep it more general 

```suggestion
## Background

Rewards to node operators and delegators are paid at the end of every epoch. Currently, these rewards will sit there until the user manually does something with them, either withdrawing or restaking them. This can be cumbersome to most stakers who simply want to continue staking their tokens every week. Many users over the years have asked for functionality to automatically restake their rewards for them.
```
[continue the background section as is:]
> ...  enabling this feature following community discussion and voting.

and then we explain the buckets.
```
Under the hood, the staking smart contract maintains three "buckets" of tokens for each staker and delegator. 
... <explain buckets and introduce specific names for the relevant buckets, use those names in the later section>
```

Flow originally decided to not include this feature out of an abundance of caution about crypto regulations. Given recent developments in the past five years related to crypto regulations, and especially considering that most other Proof-of-Stake blockchains support this feature with no negative repercussions, the Flow foundation is proposing enabling this feature following community discussion and voting.

## Proposal

When tokens are moved between buckets at the end of every epoch, for any given staker, transfer all their rewarded tokens to their staked bucket and update all the relevant staking metadata for that user.

> Because rewards are paid every epoch after tokens are moved between buckets, this means that staking rewards that are paid to users will still stay in their rewards bucket after they are paid every week. This will allow users who want to withdraw rewards every week instead of restaking them to still be able to do without having to wait for the 1-2 week unstaking period. We believe that this will be the least disruptive to any existing stakers who maybe doing something different than restaking every week.

Reviewer: I had to read this section 3 times before I understood, and I would guess that I have pretty good background information 😅 . I think you can significantly improve clarity by emphasizing key aspects and spelling it out more explicitly step by step. 

```suggestion
It is important to emphasize that rewards are paid every epoch _after_ tokens are moved between buckets. This means that staking rewards that are paid to users will still **stay in their rewards bucket for one week** after they have been paid. This means:
* Reward tokens that the staker's / delegator's does not deposit into their account within one week will automatically be staked. Once the tokens are staked, they are subject to the standard 1-2 week unbonding period. 
* Users can withdraw (a portion of) rewards immediately within one week after the tokens have been rewarded. This moves the tokens out of the rewards bucket. Only the tokens remaining in the rewards bucket will be automatically restaked at the next epoch switchover. 

We believe that this will be the least disruptive to any existing stakers who maybe doing something different than restaking every week.
```
